[DOCS] Adds the 7.14.0 release notes (#107058)
elastic/kibana: docs/CHANGELOG.asciidoc

[[deprecation-102878]]
.Deprecates Ingest Pipelines URL generator
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The Ingest Pipelines URL generator is deprecated. For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}102878[#102878].

*Impact* +
The Machine Learning link that navigates you to *Ingest Managment* now uses locators.
====
      
[discrete]
[[deprecation-102854]]
.Deprecates Dashboard URL generator
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The Dashboard URL generator is deprecated. For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}102854[#102854].

*Impact* +
Drilldowns now use the *Dashboard* locator.
====
      
[discrete]
[[deprecation-102712]]
.Deprecates Discover URL generator
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The *Explore Underlying Data* URL generator is deprecated. For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}102712[#102712].

*Impact* +
The *Explore Underlying Data* interaction now uses the *Discover* locator.
====
      
[discrete]
[[deprecation-102059]]
.Deprecates `csp.rules`
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The `csp.rules` configuration property is deprecated. You are no longer required to set the default {kib} values. For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}102059[#102059].

*Impact* +

> Use `csp.script_src`, `csp.worker_src`, and `csp.style_src`.

Reviewer: Should we add a link to where these are defined in `docs/setup/settings.asciidoc`?

Author: Yes! I'll add this as a best practice to our release notes process.

// tag::notable-breaking-changes[]

[discrete]
[[breaking-102263]]
.Changes audit event terminology
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The terminology has changed for audit events logged by the alerting framework alerts client when CRUD operations are performed on rules. 

The following audit actions are renamed:

* `alert_create` is now `rule_create`

* `alert_get` is now `rule_get`

* `alert_update` is now `rule_update`

* `alert_update_api_key` is now `rule_update_api_key`

* `alert_enable` is now `rule_enable`

* `alert_disable` is now `rule_disable`

* `alert_delete` is now `rule_delete`

* `alert_find` is now `rule_find`

* `alert_mute` is now `rule_mute`

* `alert_unmute` is now `rule_unmute`

* `alert_instance_mute` is now `rule_alert_mute`

* `alert_instance_unmute` is now `rule_alert_unmute`

The terminology in the audit messages now references `rules` instead of `alerts`. For example, `User is creating alert [id=${ruleId}]` is now `User is creating rule [id=${ruleId}]`.

For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}102263[#102263].

*Impact* +
When you upgrade to 7.14.0, {kib} automatically uses the new terminology. No action is needed.

> ====

Reviewer 2: @ymao1 does this "changes audit event terminology" section look good to you for the 7.14 release notes? This is copied from your PR: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/102263.

Reviewer 3: Yep, sounds accurate to me!

* `getAlertingAuthorizationWithRequest` is now exposed through alerting plugin start, which allows other plugins to use it.

* `AlertsAuthorization` is now `AlertingAuthorization`.

The formatting for the following recorded audit events was changed:

* Audit event types now use `alerting_ prefix` instead of `alerts_ prefix`:

** `alerts_authorization_failure` is now `alerting_authorization_failure`

** `alerts_unscoped_authorization_failure` is now `alerting_unscoped_authorization_failure`

** `alerts_authorization_success` is now `alerting_authorization_success`

* Audit events have been updated to reflect the new alerting terminology:

** `alerts` are now `rules`. For example, the audit event `user Authorized to create a ".index-threshold" alert by "app"` is now `user Authorized to create a ".index-threshold" rule by "app"`.

** `alert instances` are now `alert`. For example, audit events for `muteInstance` and `unmuteInstance` operations now reference `muteAlert` and `unmuteAlert`.

For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}99078[#99078].

*Impact* +
When you upgrade to 7.14.0, {kib} automatically reflects the changes. No action is needed.

> ====    

Reviewer 2: @ymao1 does this "refactors alerts authorization client" section look good to you for the 7.14 release notes? It's copied from your PR: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/99078.

Reviewer 3: I think only the section regarding audit events needs to be in the release notes. The breaking change in this case is the fact that alerting authorization audit events now say rule instead of alerts. Everything else in the PR description can be left out.

Reviewer 2: Thanks! So I think the below change will suffice 🙏 

```suggestion
[discrete]
[[breaking-99078]]
.Refactors alerts authorization client
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The alerts authorization client has been refactored to be more generic. {kib} uses the existing alerting feature privilege model to provide `all` and `read` privileges to `rules` and `alerts`. 

For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}99078[#99078].

*Impact* +
When you upgrade to 7.14.0, {kib} automatically reflects the changes. No action is needed.
====    
```

Reviewer 3: What about this to highlight specific audit language changes:

```suggestion
[discrete]
[[breaking-99078]]
.Refactors alerts authorization client
[%collapsible]
====
*Details* +
The terminology has changed for audit events logged by the alerting authorization client client when CRUD operations are performed on rules.

** `alerts` are now `rules`. For example, the audit event `user Authorized to create a ".index-threshold" alert by "app"` is now `user Authorized to create a ".index-threshold" rule by "app"`.

** `alert instances` are now `alert`. For example, audit events for `muteInstance` and `unmuteInstance` operations now reference `muteAlert` and `unmuteAlert`.

For more information, refer to {kibana-pull}99078[#99078].

*Impact* +
When you upgrade to 7.14.0, {kib} automatically reflects the changes. No action is needed.
====    
```

* Rare anomaly detection job wizard {kibana-pull}100390[#100390]
* APM latency correlations {kibana-pull}99905[#99905]
* Data Visualizer: adds choropleth map for index and file {kibana-pull}99434[#99434]
* Anomaly Detection Explorer: adds choropleth map {kibana-pull}98847[#98847]
Management::
* Adds support for the `top_metrics` aggregation {kibana-pull}101152[#101152]
* Default index pattern REST API {kibana-pull}100691[#100691]
Maps::
* Moves edit tools to beta and remove experimental config flags {kibana-pull}103556[#103556]
* Adds layer edit controls {kibana-pull}99812[#99812]
Platform::
* Removes external *Launch App Search* button {kibana-pull}100815[#100815]

For more information about the features introduced in 7.14.0, refer to <<whats-new,What's new in 7.14>>.

[[enhancements-and-bug-fixes-v7.14.0]]
=== Enhancements and bug fixes

For detailed information about the 7.14.0 release, review the enhancements and bug fixes.

[float]
[[enhancement-v7.14.0]]
=== Enhancements
Alerting::
* Adds event log entry when an action starts executing {kibana-pull}102370[#102370]
* Adds event log entry when a rule starts executing {kibana-pull}102001[#102001]

> * Export rules and connectors {kibana-pull}98802[#98802]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds ability to import/export rules and connectors {kibana-pull}98802[#98802]
```

> * Updates connectors with isMissingSecrets flag {kibana-pull}98223[#98223]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* Allow layers to be excluded from fit to data {kibana-pull}100098[#100098]
* Filter dashboard by map extent {kibana-pull}99860[#99860]
* Adds layer edit controls {kibana-pull}99812[#99812]
* Timeslider {kibana-pull}99661[#99661]
* Show empty tooltips with actions on click {kibana-pull}99337[#99337]
* Visualize in maps button {kibana-pull}98677[#98677]
* Adds attribution to layer editor {kibana-pull}98328[#98328]
* Fetch geojson using ems-client {kibana-pull}97908[#97908]
Metrics::
* Enable out of the box alerts modal {kibana-pull}101565[#101565]
* Adds shared observability page template and navigation {kibana-pull}99380[#99380]
Monitoring::
* Create alert per node, index, or cluster instead of always per cluster {kibana-pull}102544[#102544]
Platform::
* Update docs to include new o11y features {kibana-pull}104884[#104884]
* Introduce createTable expression function, and use in Lens {kibana-pull}103788[#103788]
* Log at different levels based on the state {kibana-pull}101751[#101751]
* Create expressions function to get UI settings {kibana-pull}101317[#101317]
* Remove external "Launch App Search" button {kibana-pull}100815[#100815]

> * Adds capacity estimation to the TM health endpoint {kibana-pull}100475[#100475]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Adds capacity estimation to the Task Manager health endpoint {kibana-pull}100475[#100475]
```

* Adds support for setting multiple variables to varSet {kibana-pull}100458[#100458]
* Formula overall functions {kibana-pull}99461[#99461]
* Formula editor {kibana-pull}99297[#99297]
* Collect all documents that fail to transform before stopping the migration {kibana-pull}96986[#96986]
Querying & Filtering::
* Improve default time ranges for better request caching {kibana-pull}100536[#100536]
* Use new terms enum API for autocomplete value suggestions {kibana-pull}100174[#100174]
* Adds IPv6 support by the data plugin {kibana-pull}99837[#99837]
Reporting::
* Relax save requirement for CSV reports {kibana-pull}99313[#99313]
* Kibana Application Privileges for Reporting {kibana-pull}94966[#94966]
Security::

> * Create API keys with metadata {kibana-pull}100682[#100682]
> * Role Management: improve editing experience for DLS queries {kibana-pull}99977[#99977]
> * Simplify deleting spaces {kibana-pull}99960[#99960]
> * Use `vega-interpreter` to safely evaluate Vega expressions {kibana-pull}98832[#98832]
> * Handle session timeout and user activity {kibana-pull}98461[#98461]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Adds support for creating API Keys with custom metadata {kibana-pull}100682[#100682]
* Role Management: improve editing experience for DLS queries {kibana-pull}99977[#99977]
* Simplify the process for deleting a space {kibana-pull}99960[#99960]
* Use `vega-interpreter` to safely evaluate Vega expressions {kibana-pull}98832[#98832]
* Improves session timeout handling and activity tracking {kibana-pull}98461[#98461]
```

Metrics::
* Prevent saved views from trampling URL state {kibana-pull}103146[#103146]
* Don't mount AlertFlyout and NodeContextPopover when they aren't visible {kibana-pull}99039[#99039]
* Bug fix for extra call to get anomalies in hooks {kibana-pull}98686[#98686]
* Fixes assignment v comparison and null type check in metrics detail page {kibana-pull}95102[#95102]
Monitoring::
* Adds rules modal to listing page {kibana-pull}104328[#104328]
* Fixes inaccurate Kibana status message when Kibana is in a yellow "degraded" state {kibana-pull}103816[#103816]
* Fixes Cluster Listing view {kibana-pull}103718[#103718]
* Create alert per node, index, or cluster instead of always per cluster {kibana-pull}102544[#102544]
* Fixes alert status for nodes listing view {kibana-pull}101941[#101941]
* Migrated legacy Elasticsearch client for 8.0 {kibana-pull}101850[#101850]
Operations::
* Audit of missing settings {kibana-pull}102504[#102504]
Platform::
* Compress stream chunks {kibana-pull}97994[#97994]
Reporting::
* Adds `handleSIGHUP: false` to puppeteer LaunchOptions {kibana-pull}104992[#104992]
Security::
* Fixes of the `ja-JP.json not found` error {kibana-pull}105023[#105023]

> * Load FLS suggestions on-demand {kibana-pull}98681[#98681]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Role management: load field-level security suggestions on-demand {kibana-pull}98681[#98681]
```
